#   Copyright
#
#      Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Jari Aalto
#
#   License
#
#       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#       it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#       the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#       (at your option) any later version.
#
#       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#       but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
#       GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#       along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
#   Description
#
#	To learn what TOP LEVEL section to use in manual pages,
#	see POSIX/Susv standard and "tility Description Defaults" at
#	http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695399/utilities/xcu_chap01.html#tag_01_11
#
#	This is manual page in Perl POD format. Read more at
#	http://perldoc.perl.org/perlpod.html or run command:
#
#	    perldoc perlpod | less
#
#	To check the syntax:
#
#	    podchecker *.pod
#
#	Create manual page with command:
#
#	    pod2man PAGE.N.pod > PAGE.N

=pod

=head1 NAME

micro-httpd - really small HTTP server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  micro-httpd DIRECTORY

=head1 OPTIONS

None.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

micro-httpd is a very small HTTP server all in 150 lines of code. It
runs from inetd, which means its performance is poor. But for
low-traffic sites, it is quite adequate. It implements all the basic
features of an HTTP server, including:

    *  Security against ".." filename snooping.
    *  The common MIME types.
    *  Trailing-slash redirection.
    *  index.html
    *  Directory listings.

To install it, add a line like this to /etc/inetd.conf:

    micro-http  stream tcp nowait nobody \
       /usr/sbin/micro-httpd micro-httpd dir

Make sure the path to the executable is correct, and change "dir" to
be the directory you want to serve. You could add line like this to
/etc/services:

    micro-http   port/tcp   #Micro HTTP server

Change "port" to the port number you want to use: 80, 8000, whatever.
Restart inetd by sending it a "HUP" signal.

On some systems, inetd has a maximum spawn rate - if you try to run
inetd services faster than a certain number of times per minute, it
assumed there is either a bug of an attack going on and it shuts down
for a few minutes. If you run into this problem - look for syslog
messages about too-rapid looping - you will need to find out how to
increase the limit. Unfortunately this varies from OS to OS. On
FreeBSD, you add a "-R 10000" flag to inetd's initial command line. On
some Linux systems, you can set the limit on a per-service basis in
inetd.conf, by changing "nowait" to "nowait.10000".

Note that you can use micro-httpd to serve HTTPS, if you like, by
running it from stunnel. First fetch and install stunnel - FreeBSD
users can just go to /usr/ports/security/stunnel and do a "make cert ;
make install". Then as root run:

    stunnel -p /usr/local/certs/stunnel.pem -d 443 -l \
       /usr/sbin/micro-httpd --  micro-httpd dir

Make sure the paths to the certificate and executable are correct, and
again don not forget to change "dir" to the directory you want to
serve.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

None.

=head1 FILES

None.

=head1 SEE ALSO

inetd(8)
micro-inetd(8)
xinetd(8)

=head1 AUTHORS

Copyright (C) 1999 Jef Poskanzer <jef@mail.acme.com>. All rights
reserved.

This manual page was updated by Jari Aalto <jari.aalto@cante.net>.
Released under license GNU GPL v2 or (at your option) any later
version. For more information about license, visit
<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut
